# Path Follower

## Overview
The role of the path follower is to generate the correct airspeed, course, and altitude commands for the autopilot such that the aircraft follows the paths published by `path_manager`.


More information on the `path_follower` can be found in *Small Unmanned Aircraft: Theory and Practice* by Dr. Randal Beard and Dr. Tim McLain.

## Path Follower ROS
The path follower ROS class contains all the ROS2 interfaces required for the path follower.
A list of these interfaces is below.

The `path_follower_ros::follow` method is a virtual method that should be implemented by a derived class.
The `path_follower_ros` publishes the controller commands calculated by the implementation of `path_follower_ros::follow`.

### List of ROS2 Interfaces

| **ROS2 Interface** | **Topic or Service** | **Explanation** | **Message or Service Type** |
| :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| `vehicle_state_sub_` | `/estimated_state` | Subscribes to the estimated aircraft state | `rosplane_msgs::msg::State` |
| `current_path_sub_` | `/current_path` | Subscribes to the current path messages published by `path_manager` | `rosplane_msgs::msg::CurrentPath` |
| `controller_commands_pub_` | `/controller_command` | Publishes control commands to the autopilot | `rosplane_msgs::msg::ControllerCommands` |
| `update_timer_` | -- | ROS2 timer that controls how frequently `controller_commands_pub_` publishes | -- |

### Interface with the Autopilot
The `path_follower` node interfaces with the MAV autopilot by publishing to the `/controller_command` topic.
The `/controller_command` topic contains the following information calculated by the `path_follower`:

| **Member** | **Description** | **Type / units** | **Required** |
| :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| `header` | Standard message header that contains a valid timestamp | `std_msgs::msg::Header` | Yes |
| `va_c` | Commanded airspeed | `double`, m/s | Yes |
| `h_c` | Commanded altitude | `double`, m | Yes |
| `chi_c` | Commanded course | `double`, rad | Yes |
| `phi_ff` | Feedforward command (for orbits) | `double`, rad | No |

## Path Follower Lines Orbits
The `path_follower_lines_orbits` class contains the implementation of the `path_follower_ros::follow` method.
This method contains the control command computations for straight line and orbit-type paths as outlined in *Small Unmanned Aircraft: Theory and Practice*.

## Parameters
See the [Parameter Management](../parameter-management.md) page for more details on how parameter management works.

### List of Parameters
| **Parameter** | **Explanation** | **Type / Units** | **Range** |
| :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| `chi_infty` | At infinity, the angle at which the aircraft will approach the desired line | double (rad) | $\frac{\pi}{2} \geq \chi^{\infty} > 0.0$ |
| `k_path` | Constant that determines how quickly commanded course transitions from $\chi^{\infty}$ to 0 during line following | double | $> 0.0$|
| `k_orbit` | Constant that determines how quickly commanded course transitions from $\lambda \frac{\pi}{2}$ to 0 during an orbit | double | $> 0.0$|
| `controller_commands_pub_frequency` | Publish rate for `/controller_command` | double (Hz) | $> 0.0$ |
| `gravity` | Gravity constant used for orbit feedforward | double (m/s^2) | $> 0.0$ |

Since there are two different types of lines generated by the `path_manager` (straight lines and orbits), the `path_follower` uses different parameters to calculate the control output for each path type.

For **line following**, `path_follower` uses 

- `chi_infty` and 
- `k_path` to compute the control commands.

As described in *Small Unmanned Aircraft: Theory and Practice*, these two parameters define a vector field for the commanded course.
The `chi_infty` parameter describes the angle at which the aircratft will approach a target line if the aircraft is infinitely far from the target line.
For example, if `chi_infty` is set to $\frac{\pi}{2}$, then the aircraft will approach the target line at an angle perpindicular to the line when the aircraft is far away.

The `k_path` parameter defines how quickly the vectors at `chi_infty` "smooth" into the target line.
When `k_path` is large, the transition will be abrupt, and when `k_path` is small, the transition will be smoother.

During **orbit following**, `path_follower` uses

- `k_orbit` to compute the control commands.

If the aircraft is very far away from the orbit, it will align itself so it flies directly at the center of the orbit.
The `k_orbit` parameter is similar to the `k_path` parameter in that it determines how quickly the commanded angle of the aircraft will change from directly toward the center to the orbit direction.

!!! note
    When tuning, make sure you are changing the correct gains for the type of line (straight or orbit) the aircraft is tracking.
    `chi_infty` and `k_path` will not affect the orbit performance!


## Modifying the Path Follower
Changes to any of the ROS2 interface should be done in the `path_follower_ros`.

Changes to how `path_follower` computes control commands to follow paths given by the `path_manager` should be done in the `path_follower_lines_orbits`.
